Updated LDAP docs (#939)
minio/docs: source/operations/external-iam/configure-ad-ldap-external-identity-management.rst

   - Accessing the MinIO Console using AD/LDAP credentials.
   - Using the MinIO ``AssumeRoleWithLDAPIdentity`` Security Token Service (STS) API to generate temporary credentials for use by applications.

This procedure is generic for AD/LDAP services.

> Defer to the documentation for the AD/LDAP provider of your choice for specific instructions or procedures on configuration of user identities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the documentation for the AD/LDAP provider of your choice for specific instructions or procedures on configuration of user identities.
```

`Defer` strikes me as too ... posh?

Author: I had that thought as well, although it's used elsewhere too. A second 🤔 confirms it. ✂️

         - :mc-conf:`identity_ldap user_dn_search_filter <identity_ldap.user_dn_search_filter>`

        .. code-block:: shell
           :class: copyable

	   mc idp ldap add ALIAS                                                   \
	      server_addr="ldaps.example.net:636"                                  \
              lookup_bind_dn="CN=xxxxx,OU=xxxxx,OU=xxxxx,DC=example,DC=net"        \
	      lookup_bind_password="xxxxxxxx"                                      \
	      user_dn_search_base_dn="DC=example,DC=net"                           \
	      user_dn_search_filter="(&(objectCategory=user)(sAMAccountName=%s))"  \
	      group_search_filter= "(&(objectClass=group)(member=%d))"             \
	      group_search_base_dn="ou=MinIO Users,dc=example,dc=net"              \
	      server_insecure=on

        For more complete documentation on these settings, see :mc:`mc idp ldap`.

	.. admonition:: :mc:`mc idp ldap` recommended
           :class: note

           :mc:`mc idp ldap` offers additional features and improved validation over :mc-cmd:`mc admin config set` runtime configuration settings.

>            The :mc-conf:`identity_ldap` configuration key remains available for existing scripts and tools.

Author: Need to decide what to say about configuring with `identity_ldap`. I haven't seen that it's formally deprecated, but the newer `mc idp ldap` is preferred.

My understanding is doing it with the configuration key _should_ emit a warning. Not sure the status of that. See https://github.com/minio/minio/issues/17790

Reviewer 2: My understanding is we prefer users utilize `mc idp ldap` as it is just less error prone and a bit easier to manage. It effectively sets the config settings under the hood.

I don't think we would ever deprecate the direct config route - but what we probably _should_ do is add a new tab to the LDAP (and OpenID ) pages that uses the MC CLI, then envvars, then config - where we state in the latter tabs that we recommend `mc idp <thing>`.

Reviewer 3: Yes, `mc admin config set ALIAS identity_ldap ...` is not deprecated - they are just lower level commands that were used previously - they will be available. The newer `mc idp ldap` is higher level and does more LDAP validation (for e.g. it should have better error messages when something is misconfigured or not working).

On minio/minio#17790 the problem is that the config parameter name is not right `identity_ldap_server_insecure="on"` - this has a unnecessary `identity_ldap_` prefix and it should throw an error, but there is an issue with the parser that may need some larger changes. I am marking it as low priority for now, but will get around to fixing it eventually.

Author: Aha! It was specifically about that parameter, not anything with `identity_ldap` more generally. That makes sense. 

The follow-on PR will separate the two methods even more and hopefully reduce confusion.

   ---------

   1) Set the Active Directory / LDAP Configuration Settings
   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

   Configure the AD/LDAP provider using one of the following:

   * MinIO Client
   * environment variables
   * MinIO Console

   All methods require starting/restarting the MinIO deployment to apply changes.

   The following tabs provide a quick reference for the available configuration methods:

   .. tab-set::

      .. tab-item:: MinIO Client

         MinIO supports specifying the AD/LDAP provider settings using :mc:`mc idp ldap` commands.

         For distributed deployments, the :mc:`mc idp ldap` command applies the configuration to all nodes in the deployment. 

         The following example code sets *all* configuration settings related to configuring an AD/LDAP provider for external identity management.
	 The minimum *required* settings are:

         - :mc-conf:`server_addr <identity_ldap.server_addr>`
         - :mc-conf:`lookup_bind_dn <identity_ldap.lookup_bind_dn>`
         - :mc-conf:`lookup_bind_password <identity_ldap.lookup_bind_password>`
         - :mc-conf:`user_dn_search_base_dn <identity_ldap.user_dn_search_base_dn>`

>          - :mc-conf:`user_dn_search_filter <identity_ldap.user_dn_search_filter>`

Reviewer 2: This is more of a note:

So this will point the user ad the config settings instead of `mc idp ldap add <param>`. But we don't yet have dedicated pages for each param, so we don't have a choice here _yet_.

I think if we want to go properly into showcasing this command we're going to have to commit to breaking it all out into standalone pages.

Author: new issue for this https://github.com/minio/docs/issues/940

	      server_addr="ldaps.example.net:636"                                  \
              lookup_bind_dn="CN=xxxxx,OU=xxxxx,OU=xxxxx,DC=example,DC=net"        \
	      lookup_bind_password="xxxxxxxx"                                      \
	      user_dn_search_base_dn="DC=example,DC=net"                           \
	      user_dn_search_filter="(&(objectCategory=user)(sAMAccountName=%s))"  \
	      group_search_filter= "(&(objectClass=group)(member=%d))"             \
	      group_search_base_dn="ou=MinIO Users,dc=example,dc=net"              \
              enabled="true"                                                       \
              sts_expiry="1h"                                                      \
              username_format="uid=%s,cn=miniousers,dc=myldapserver,dc=net,userPrincipalName=%s,cn=miniousers,dc=myldapserver,dc=net"                                            \
              tls_skip_verify="off"                                                \
              server_insecure=off                                                  \
              server_starttls="off"                                                \

> 	      comment="Test LDAP server"

Author: This example contains all the relevant envvars/configuration key settings. Is this/these sample values reasonable?

Author: Also: better way to format the long line for `username_format`?

Reviewer 2: I think those are fine for sample values - we cannot reasonably dig int AD/LDAP syntax here.

As far as formatting...not really :grimacing: 

They'll have to scroll, and that is the life that AD/LDAP admins are committed to.

Reviewer: I think the long line is fine as is. There will be a horizontal scroll bar in the rendered site for people who want to see the whole thing.

        For more complete documentation on these settings, see :mc:`mc idp ldap`.

	.. admonition:: :mc:`mc idp ldap` recommended
           :class: note

           :mc:`mc idp ldap` offers additional features and improved validation over :mc-cmd:`mc admin config set` runtime configuration settings.

>            :mc:`mc idp ldap` supports the same settings as :mc:`mc admin config` and the :mc-conf:`identity_ldap` configuration key.

Author: This is an attempt to not have a second page that very nearly duplicates the existing `mc admin config identity_ldap` items. Not entirely convinced this is wise.

Reviewer 2: I think this is fine for now. Maybe as a second pass we will figure out how to cleanly remove the reliance on referencing config settings at all.

           The :mc-conf:`identity_ldap` configuration key remains available for existing scripts and tools.

      .. tab-item:: Environment Variables

         MinIO supports specifying the AD/LDAP provider settings using :ref:`environment variables <minio-server-envvar-external-identity-management-ad-ldap>`.
	 The :mc:`minio server` process applies the specified settings on its next startup.

> 	 For distributed deployments, specify these settings across all nodes in the deployment using the *same* values consistently.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	 For distributed deployments, specify these settings across all nodes in the deployment using the *same* values.
	 Any differences between server configs will result in startup or configuration failures.
```

Just to make the consequence clear.

              server_insecure=off                                                  \
              server_starttls="off"                                                \
	      comment="Test LDAP server"

        For more complete documentation on these settings, see :mc:`mc idp ldap`.

	.. admonition:: :mc:`mc idp ldap` recommended
           :class: note

           :mc:`mc idp ldap` offers additional features and improved validation over :mc-cmd:`mc admin config set` runtime configuration settings.
           :mc:`mc idp ldap` supports the same settings as :mc:`mc admin config` and the :mc-conf:`identity_ldap` configuration key.

           The :mc-conf:`identity_ldap` configuration key remains available for existing scripts and tools.

      .. tab-item:: Environment Variables

         MinIO supports specifying the AD/LDAP provider settings using :ref:`environment variables <minio-server-envvar-external-identity-management-ad-ldap>`.
	 The :mc:`minio server` process applies the specified settings on its next startup.
	 For distributed deployments, specify these settings across all nodes in the deployment using the *same* values.

> 	 Any differences between server configs will result in startup or configuration failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	 Any differences between server configs between nodes will result in startup or configuration failures.
```

Author: oh that's a good clarification 👍🏻

         MinIO supports specifying the AD/LDAP provider settings using :ref:`environment variables <minio-server-envvar-external-identity-management-ad-ldap>`.
	 The :mc:`minio server` process applies the specified settings on its next startup.
	 For distributed deployments, specify these settings across all nodes in the deployment using the *same* values.

> 	 Any differences between server configs between nodes will result in startup or configuration failures.

Reviewer: Ooh, those two `between`s are very close together.

```suggestion
	 Any differences in server configurations between nodes will result in startup or configuration failures.
```

Author: ooo I didn't notice that either. Good call.

            export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_GROUP_SEARCH_FILTER="(&(objectClass=group)(member=%d))"
            export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_GROUP_SEARCH_BASE_DN="ou=MinIO Users,dc=example,dc=net"

            export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_STS_EXPIRY="1h"
            export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_USERNAME_FORMAT="uid=%s,cn=miniousers,dc=myldapserver,dc=net,userPrincipalName=%s,cn=miniousers,dc=myldapserver,dc=net"
	    export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_TLS_SKIP_VERIFY="off"
	    export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_SERVER_INSECURE="off"
	    export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_SERVER_STARTTLS="off"

> 	    export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_COMMENT="LDAP test server"

Author: TODO: confirm these example values are reasonable

            export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_GROUP_SEARCH_FILTER="(&(objectClass=group)(member=%d))"
            export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_GROUP_SEARCH_BASE_DN="ou=MinIO Users,dc=example,dc=net"

            export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_STS_EXPIRY="1h"
            export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_USERNAME_FORMAT="uid=%s,cn=miniousers,dc=myldapserver,dc=net,userPrincipalName=%s,cn=miniousers,dc=myldapserver,dc=net"
	    export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_TLS_SKIP_VERIFY="off"
	    export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_SERVER_INSECURE="off"
	    export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_SERVER_STARTTLS="off"
	    export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_COMMENT="LDAP test server"

         For complete documentation on these variables, see :ref:`minio-server-envvar-external-identity-management-ad-ldap`

      .. tab-item:: MinIO Console

>          MinIO supports specifying the AD/LDAP provider settings using the :ref:`MinIO Console <minio-console>`.

Author: Does configuring LDAP from Console do it for the entire deployment? (Like the `mc` methods do.)

Reviewer 2: I believe so - it should be the rough equivalent of using `mc` from an API perspective.

	 .. include:: /includes/common-minio-external-auth.rst
            :start-after: start-minio-ad-ldap-console-enable
            :end-before: end-minio-ad-ldap-console-enable

   2) Restart the MinIO Deployment
   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

   You must restart the MinIO deployment to apply the configuration changes.
   Use the :mc-cmd:`mc admin service restart` command to restart the deployment.

   .. code-block:: shell
      :class: copyable

      mc admin service restart ALIAS

   Replace ``ALIAS`` with the :ref:`alias <alias>` of the deployment to restart.

>    If you configured AD/LDAP from the MinIO Console, no additional action is required.

Reviewer 2: Maybe move this up to just after the first line in case someone reads and executes in strict ordering here

            export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_USERNAME_FORMAT="uid=%s,cn=miniousers,dc=myldapserver,dc=net,userPrincipalName=%s,cn=miniousers,dc=myldapserver,dc=net"
	    export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_TLS_SKIP_VERIFY="off"
	    export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_SERVER_INSECURE="off"
	    export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_SERVER_STARTTLS="off"
	    export MINIO_IDENTITY_LDAP_COMMENT="LDAP test server"

         For complete documentation on these variables, see :ref:`minio-server-envvar-external-identity-management-ad-ldap`

      .. tab-item:: MinIO Console

         MinIO supports specifying the AD/LDAP provider settings using the :ref:`MinIO Console <minio-console>`.
         For distributed deployments, configuring AD/LDAP from the Console applies the configuration to all nodes in the deployment.

	 .. include:: /includes/common-minio-external-auth.rst
            :start-after: start-minio-ad-ldap-console-enable
            :end-before: end-minio-ad-ldap-console-enable

   2) Restart the MinIO Deployment
   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

   You must restart the MinIO deployment to apply the configuration changes.

   If you configured AD/LDAP from the MinIO Console, no additional action is required.

>    The MinIO Console automatically restarts the deployment when the new AD/LDAP configuration is saved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The MinIO Console automatically restarts the deployment after saving the new AD/LDAP configuration.
```

   For MinIO Client and environment variable configuration, use the :mc-cmd:`mc admin service restart` command to restart the deployment:

   .. code-block:: shell
      :class: copyable

      mc admin service restart ALIAS

   Replace ``ALIAS`` with the :ref:`alias <alias>` of the deployment to restart.

   3) Use the MinIO Console to Log In with AD/LDAP Credentials
   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

   The MinIO Console supports the full workflow of authenticating to the AD/LDAP provider, generating temporary credentials using the MinIO :ref:`minio-sts-assumerolewithldapidentity` Security Token Service (STS) endpoint, and logging the user into the MinIO deployment.

>    Starting in :minio-release:`RELEASE.2021-07-08T01-15-01Z`, the MinIO Console is embedded in the MinIO server.

Reviewer: That's two years ago now. I think we can drop this line.

   You can access the Console by opening the root URL for the MinIO cluster. For example, ``https://minio.example.net:9000``.

   Once logged in, you can perform any action for which the authenticated user is :ref:`authorized <minio-external-identity-management-ad-ldap-access-control>`.

   You can also create :ref:`access keys <minio-idp-service-account>` for supporting applications which must perform operations on MinIO.
   Access Keys are long-lived credentials which inherit their privileges from the parent user.

>    The parent user can further restrict those privileges while creating the service account.

Reviewer: I think we need to be clear that `service account` is the same as `access keys`.
Otherwise, this is a jarring switch when the rest of the paragraph is talking about access keys.

But I think we call them `service accounts` in most places in MinIO, so maybe it's worth intentionally linking the two.

Author: The page this links to says `service account` is an outdated name for `access key`. Which suggests favoring `access key`, like what `mc admin user svcacct` does. (Except, of course, all the _other_ places that use `service account`.)

This is confusing _for me_, much less a novice docs reader.

Is there an established way to differentiate between "an access key I, a human, uses to authenticate" and "an access key for an automated service?"

Reviewer: With all of the other `mc` command reworking that's happened, maybe move this functionality to `mc admin user accesskey`. Or even just pull it out to `mc admin accesskey`. But that's not something done in the docs.

As long as `svcacct` is the command, I don't think we can avoid the confusion.

Reviewer 2: I think I raised this to @kannappanr a while back, but I'm not sure if/when we will have engineering resources to add it as an alias (effectively).

   4) Generate S3-Compatible Temporary Credentials using AD/LDAP Credentials
   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

>    MinIO requires clients authenticate using :s3-api:`AWS Signature Version 4 protocol <sig-v4-authenticating-requests.html>` with support for the deprecated Signature Version 2 protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   MinIO requires that clients authenticate using :s3-api:`AWS Signature Version 4 protocol <sig-v4-authenticating-requests.html>` with support for the deprecated Signature Version 2 protocol.
```

or

```suggestion
   MinIO requires clients to authenticate using :s3-api:`AWS Signature Version 4 protocol <sig-v4-authenticating-requests.html>` with support for the deprecated Signature Version 2 protocol.
```

Author: I like the second, thanks!

   Specifically, clients must present a valid access key and secret key to access any S3 or MinIO administrative API, such as ``PUT``, ``GET``, and ``DELETE`` operations.

>    Applications can generate temporary access credentials as-needed using the :ref:`minio-sts-assumerolewithldapidentity` Security Token Service (STS) API endpoint and AD/LDAP user credentials. MinIO provides an example Go application :minio-git:`ldap.go <minio/blob/master/docs/sts/ldap.go>` with an example of managing this workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Applications can generate temporary access credentials as-needed using the :ref:`minio-sts-assumerolewithldapidentity` Security Token Service (STS) API endpoint and AD/LDAP user credentials. 
   MinIO provides an example Go application :minio-git:`ldap.go <minio/blob/master/docs/sts/ldap.go>` that manages this workflow.
```
